# 12/30/19 Monday

We went to the Chinese Lantern Festival last night. On the drive there, my brother-in-law asked me some very good and basic questions. Such as:
  - "What is JavaScript"?
  - "What is the difference between JavaScript and languages like Java?"
  - "Why would you choose a programming language over another?"
  - "What is the difference between array and object?"
  - "What is recursion?"

Today I worked on the "single number" challenge. 
https://leetcode.com/problems/single-number/
Here is the code:
```js
function singleNumber (nums) {
  const number = {};
  for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
    let currentNumber = nums[i];
    if (!number[currentNumber]) {
      number[currentNumber] = true
    } else {
      delete number[currentNumber]
    }
  }
  return parseInt(Object.keys(number));
}
```
- I learned about the `delete` operator in JS, which removes a property from an object.
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/delete 

## Reviewing JavaScript Basics
source: MDN
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures

JavaScript is a **loosely typed** or a **dynamic** language. Variables in JS are not directly associated with any particular value type, and any variable can be assigned(and re-assigned) values of all types. 

### Data Types
The latest ECMAScript standard defines 8 data types.
  - 7 data types that are primitives:
    - Boolean
    - Null
    - Undefined
    - Number
      - 64 bit binary format
      - Numbers between -(2^(53)-1) and 2^(53)-1
      - 3 symbolic values
        - `+Infinity`
        - `-Infinity`
        - `NaN`
    - BigInt
      - `BigInt` type is a numeric primitive in JS that can represent integers with arbitrary precision.
      - A `BigInt` is created by appending `n` to the end of an integer or by calling the constructor.  
    - String
    - Symbol
      - Symbols are new to ES6; A Symbol is a unique and **immutable** primitive value and may be used as the key of an Object property. 
  - Object
    - In computer science, an object is a value in memory which is possibly referenced by an identifier. 

- A **primitive** is data that is not an object and has no methods. All primitives are **immutable**, which means they cannot be altered. 
  - It is important not to confuse a primitive itself with a variable assigned a primitive value. 




