# 1/11/20 Saturday

I'm at the Seattle Public Library, Rainier Beach. Shout out to Dejounte Murray. I like the vibes of being at a library. 

Reviewing some basics before diving into the code challenge today. 

## Function Declarations vs. Function Expressions
https://medium.com/@mandeep1012/function-declarations-vs-function-expressions-b43646042052

Function Declarations in JavaScript:
  - The function statement declares a function. 
  - Just as Variable declations must start with "var", Function Declarations must begin with "function". 

Function Expression in JavaScript:
  - A JavaScript function can also be defined using an **expression**.
  - A function expression can be stored in a variable:
  ```js
  var x = function (a, b) {
    return a * b;
  }
  ```
  - After a function expression has been stored in a variable, the variable can be used as a function. Functions stored in variables do not need function names. They are always invoked using the variable name. 

* **Function declarations** load before any code is executed while **Function expressions** load only when the interpreter reaches that line of code. 

Benefits of Function Expressions:
  - as closures
  - as arguments to other functions
  - as Immediately Invoked Function Expressions (IIFE)


Today's Challenge: Longest Common Prefix problem
https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-prefix/

Here's the code: (I had help from a Youtube video)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJOgI8TpSgc

```js
function longestCommonPrefix (strings) {
  let prefix = '';
  if (strings.length < 1) {
    return prefix;
  }
  for (let i = 0; i < strings[0].length; i++) {
    const character = strings[0][i]
    for (let j = 0; j < strings.length; j++) {
      if (strings[j][i] !== character) {
        return prefix;
      }
    }
    prefix = prefix + character;
  }
  return prefix;
}
```

A couple of takeaways:
  - review double nested for loops
  - review let vs. const 
  - remember the edge cases (what if the input array is empty?)