# 1/27/20 Monday 

Notes from the Web Develpment video:
  - Transpiler: converts newer JavaScript code to be compatible with older browsers 
  - Protocols: languages used to share information between devices 
    - Examples: POP, SMTP, IMAP, FTP
    - Most important ones to a developer:
      - HTTP/HTTPS (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol)
        - GET: asks to receive some information
        - POST: sends some information
        - DELETE: asks to remove some information
      - TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) / IP (Internet Protocol)
        - Information are broken down into little pieces called "packets"; that way, data can travel efficiently through the best possible path
        - How do the "packets" know where to go? That's where "IP" comes in. 
        - DNS (Domain Name Server): it transfers what you type in, like "google.com", into IP addresses.
        - HTTP Headers: important information that passes between client and server; think of them as the tags on the clothing you buy. **HTTP Headers** provides a lot of important information. 
  - Making web **accessible**
    - Accessibility Tree
    - Write HTML properly
    - ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications): further describes the role of each element. 
  
  - What does it mean to be functional?
    - Language designed to be flexible, and less structured.

  - MVC
    - Model (data)
    - View (template)
    - Controller (combines data and view together)
  
  - **WordPress**?
    - Content management system (CMS) based on PHP and MySQL.

  - Build Process?  
    - A set of automation commands that take care of common tasks.
      - Webpack (bundle your code and remove unused pieces)
      - Babel (transpiles code for older browsers)

  - Service?
    - An application that provides access to some information.

  - REST (Representational State Transfer): service based on HTTP