# 1/8/20 Wednesday

Today I had my whiteboard interview with Jacob. I passed. :)
- Some takeaways from today:
  * step through the problem after algorithm/during pseudocode, instead of later during actual code
  * avoid spending too long on writing input and output 
  * take ownership of your code, test it, try to find cases that make it fail


Before my meeting with Jacob, I reviewed recursion and depth-first traversal for trees. It helped alot when I drew a stack, and placed each node into the stack as I practiced different traversal methods (pre-order, inorder, postorder). 

This is my next code challenge problem to practice:
https://leetcode.com/problems/roman-to-integer/

## What is the difference between array and object in JavaScript?

  - Objects represent "things" with different characteristics (aka properties). 
  - Arrays create and store list of data in a single variable. 

  - Both dot notation and bracket notation allows us to access object. 
  - Zero-based indexing and other methods allows us to access array. 

  - Arrays are especially useful when creating ordered collections. 


Reading for later:
https://bitsofco.de/for-in-vs-for-of/

## `for..in` vs. `for..of` loops 

This is the [file](../exercise/forIn-vs-forOf.js) I used to practice.

- The most basic type of iteration in JS is `for` loop.
  - `for` loop takes three expressions:
    1. a variable declaration 
    2. an expression to be evaluated before each iteration
    3. an expression to be evaluated after each iteration 
- Besides the traditional `for` loop, there is also `for..in` and `for..of` loop. 

### `for..in` statement
- Method for iterating over "enumerable" properties of an object.

### `for..of` statement 
- Method for iterating over "iterable collections". These are objects that have a [Symbol.iterator] property. 
- By calling `[Symbol.iterator]().next()` method, it allows us to manually iterate over the collection. 
- `for..of` doesn't work with Objects. Because they are not "iterable". 
- This method works well with arrays and strings, and also NodeLists. 