# 5/1/20 Friday 

JVM - Java Virtual Machine 

## Code Structure in Java
- Put a class in a source file.
- Put methods in a class.
- Put statements in a method. 

- A source code file (with the .java extension) holds one __class__ definition. The class represents a __piece__ of your program. The class must go within a pair of curly braces. 

```java
public class Dog {
  
}  // this is a class
```
**What goes in a class?**
A class has one or more __methods__. In the Dog class, the __bark__ method will hold instructions for how the Dog should bark. Your methods must be declared __inside__ a class, in other words, within the curly braces of the class. 

```java
public class Dog {
  void bark() {

  }
}
```
**What goes in a method?**

Method code is basically a set of statements, like a function or procedure. 

Every Java application has to have at least one __class__, and at least one main method(not one main per __class__; just one main per __application__)

The __main() method__ is where your program starts running. No matter how big your program is, in other words, no matter how many classes your program uses, there's got to be a main() method to get the ball rolling.

**What can you say in the main method?**

1. do something:
  - Statements: declarations, assignments, method calls, etc.
    ```java
    int x = 3;
    String name = "Dirk";
    x = x * 17;
    System.out.print("x is " + x);
    double d = Math.random();
    // this is a comment
    ```
2. do something again and again:
  - Loops: __for__ and __while__
    ```java
    while (x > 12) {
      x = x - 1;
    }
    for (int x = 0; x < 10; x = x + 1) {
      System.out.print("x is now " + x);
    }
    ```
3. do something under this condition:
  - Branching: if/else tests
    ```java
    if (x == 10) {
      System.out.print("x must be 10");
    } else {
      System.out.print("x isn't 10");
    }
    ```

**System.out.print vs. System.out.println**
- `System.out.println` inserts a newline
- `System.out.print` keeps printing to the same line







