# 5/14/20 Thursday 

## Continuing Chapter 3 

The array object can have _elements_ which are primitives, but the array itself is _never_ a primitive. Regardless of what the array holds, the array itself is always an object. 

### Make an array of Dogs

1. Declare a Dog array variable 
```java
Dog[] pets;
```

2. Create a new Dog array with a length of 7, and assign it to the previously-declared `Dog[]` variable `pets`
```java
pets = new Dog[7];
```

Remember, elements in a Dog _array_ are just Dog reference _variables_. We still need Dogs!
```java
pets[0] = new Dog();
pets[1] = new Dog();
```

What is the current value of pets[2]? _null?_
What code would make pets[3] refer to one of the two existing Dog objects? _pets[3] = pets[0]?_

### Java cares about type

**Once you've declared an array, you can't put anything in it except things that are of the declared array type.**

You can, however, put a `byte` into an `int` array, because a `byte` will always fit into an `int`-sized cup. **Implicit Widening**

### Control your Dog (with a reference variable)
```java
Dog fido = new Dog();
fido.name = "Fido";
```

### What happens if the Dog is in a Dog array?
When the Dog is in an array, we don't have an actual variable name (like _Fido_). Instead we use array notation and push the remote control button (dot operator) on an object on an object at a particular index(position) in the array:
```java
Dog[] myDogs = new Dog[3];
myDogs[0] = new Dog();
myDogs[0].name = "Fido";
myDogs[0].bark();
```

### Important Points 
- Variables come in two flavors: primitive and reference.
- Variables must always be declared with a name and a type.
- A primitive variable value is the bits representing the value(5, 'a', true, 3.1415, etc).
- A reference variable is the bits representing a way to get to an object on the heap. 
- A reference variable is like a remote control. Using the dot operator(.) on a reference variable is like pressing a button on the remote control to access a method or instance variable. 
- A reference variable has a value of `null` when it is not referencing any object. 
- An array is always an object, even if the array is declared to hold primitives. There is no such thing as a primitive array, only an array that _holds_ primitives. 



