# 5/18/20 Monday 

## Chapter 4 continued...

### Java is pass-by-value. That means pass-by-copy.
1. Declare an int variable and assign it the value '7'. The bit pattern for 7 goes into the variable named x.

```java
int x = 7;
```

2. Declare a method with an int parameter named z.

```java
void go(int z){}
```

3. Call the go() method, passing the variable x as the argument. The bits in x are copied, and the copy lands in z. 

```java
foo.go(x);
```

4. Change the value of z inside the method. The value of x doesn't change! The argument passed to the z parameter was only a _copy_ of x. The method can't change the bits that were in the calling variable x. 

Remember, you don't stuff objects into variables; the variable is a remote control - a _reference to an object_. 

You can return anything that can be _implicitly_ promoted to that type. So, you can pass a byte where an int is expected. You must use an _explicit_ cast when the declared type is _smaller_ than what you're trying to return. 

Java doesn't require you to acknowledge a return value. In Java, you don't have to assign or use the return value. 

### Important Points 
- Classes define what an object knows and what an object does.
- Things an object knows are its **instance variables** (state).
- Things an object does are its **methods** (behavior).
- Methods can use instance variables so that objects of the same type can behave differently. 
- A method can have parameters, which means you can pass one or more values in to the method. 
- The number and type of values you pass in must match the order and type of the parameters declared by the method. 
- Values passed in and out of methods can be implicitly promoted to a larger type or explicitly cast to a smaller type. 
- The value you pass as an argument to a method can be a literal value, or a variable of the declared parameter type. 
- A method _must_ declare a return type. A void return type means the method doesn't return anything. 
- If a method declares a non-void return type, it _must_ return a value compatible with the declared return type. 

### Getters and Setters 
```java
class ElectricGuitar {
  
  String brand;
  int numOfPickups;
  boolean rockStarUsesIt;

  String getBrand() {
    return brand;
  }
  void setBrand(String aBrand) {
    brand = aBrand;
  }
  int getNumOfPickups() {
    return numOfPickups;
  }
  void setNumOfPickups(int num) {
    numOfPickups = num;
  }
  boolean getRockStarUsesIt() {
    return rockStarUsesIt;
  }
  void setRockStarUsesIt(boolean yesOrNo) {
    rockStarUsesIt = yesOrNo;
  }
}
```

### Encapsulation 
We need to build a setter methods for all the instance variables, and find a way to force other code to call the setters rather than access the data directly. 
```java
public void setHeight(int ht) {
  if (ht > 9) {
    height = ht;
  }
}
```
