# 5/20/20 Wednesday

1st day of class went well today. Lots of setting up using the Virtual Windows Machine, and started to get into the fundamentals of Java. I'm about to do some reading for tomorrow's class, and this is my follow-along notes. 

## Pg 44-69 in "Java Part 1" Coursebook 

## Classes, References, and Instantiation 

- A **class** defines a new Java type
- There is no global data, nor global methods 
- Creating the object is also known as _instantiating_ the class 

### Creating and Referencing Objects 

- The heap is a common pool of memory that is available to your program. 
- Think of the heap as a huge ball of memory dough that you can pull chunks off of to make objects. 

## Data and Methods in a Class 
A Class declares data in its **fields** (or _instance variables_).
  - Each instance stores its own values 
  - These values can vary from instance to instance 

If not initialized, fields are initialized to a **default value**.
  - Zero from numeric values, null for references, false for booleans 
```java
public class AlarmClock {
  int snoozeInterval = 5;
  void snooze() {
    System.out.println("Snooze " + snoozeInterval);
  }
}

public class EarlyMorning {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    AlarmClock myClock = new AlarmClock();
    myClock.snooze();
  }
}
```
**statements**: the smallest independent units in a Java program, ending with a semicolon;

**Interger values** default to type `int`.

**Floating point values** default to type `double`. 

All variables must be declared somewhere in a class. 

### Primitive Type Conversion and Casting 
Conversion/Casting take place at compile time. 
- **Upcasts** are implicit and automatic (from smaller to larger size)
- **Downcasts** must be explicit (from larger to smaller size)
```java
float diameter = 6.77F;
float pi = 3.1415927F;
double circum = pi * diameter; // auto "upcast" to double 

float approx = (float) circum; // explicit "downcast"
```

Automatic "upcasts" may occur during operations
```
int + float -> float // int converted to float
float + double -> double // float converted to double 
```


