# 5/23/20 Saturday 

Eariler today, my classmates and I got together online and reviewed the general concepts we learned so far in class. Big thanks to my friend Jeff for leading it. :) 

Now, my dog, JB is by my feet on the living room couch, and I'm happy to dive back into "Head First Java!"

## Continuing Reading Chapter 4 

### Encapsulation 
```java
public void setHeight(int ht) {
  if (ht > 9) {
    height = ht;
  }
}
```
For now, mark your instance variables **private** and provide **public** getters and setters for access control. 

"The point to getters and setters is that **you can change your mind later, without breaking anybody else's code**."

Instance variables always get a default value. If you don't explicitly assign a value to an instance variable, or you don't call a setter method, the instance variable still has a value.
  - intergers: 0
  - floating points: 0.0
  - booleans: false
  - references: null

### Difference between instance and local variables 
1. **Instance** variables are declared _inside a class_ but not within a method. 
2. **Local** variables are declared _within a method_.
3. **Local** variables MUST be initialized before use.

### Comparing Variables 
Use `==` to compare two primitives, or to see if two references refer to the same object. 

Use the `equals()` method to see if two different objects are equal. 

### "Who Am I" Game 
**A class can have any number of these.**
  - instance variable, method, getter, setter
**A method can have only one of these.**
  - return
**This can be implicitly promoted.**
  - return, argument
**I prefer my instance variables private.**
  - encapsulation
**It really means 'make a copy'.**
  - pass by value 
**Only setters should update these.**
  - instance variable 
**A method can have many of these.**
  - argument
**I return something by definition.**
  - getter
**I shouldn't be used with instance variables.**
  - public
**I can have many arguments.**
  - method
**By definition, I take one argument.**
  - setter
**These help create encapsulation.**
  - getter, setter, private, public 
**I always fly solo.**
  - return
