# 5/25/20 Monday 

## Session 4: Flow of Control 

  Java has fairly standard flow control statements. 
    - Branching/selection statements choose one of several flows:
      - **if**
      - **if-else**
      - **switch**
    - Iteration statements specify looping 
      - **while**
      - **do-while**
      - **for**
    - Jump statements transfer control unconditionally
      - **break**
      - **continue**
      - **return** 
  
### The Logical Operators 
  - The conditional AND operator `&&` evaluates its right-hand operand only if the value of its left-hand operand is `true`. 
  - THe conditional OR operator `||` evaluates its right-hand operand onlhy if the value of its left-hand operand is `false`. 

### "if-else" Statement and Ternary Operator 
  ```java
  int a = 0, b = 1, c;
  // set c to the smaller of a or b
  if (a < b) {
    c = a;
  } else {
    c = b;
  }
  ``` 
  **Ternary Operator**
  `result = testCondition ? val1 : val2`
  ```java
  int a = 0; b = 1; c;
  c = (a < b) ? a : b; // set c to smaller of a or b
  ```

### "switch" Statement 
  - `switch` allows testing for more than one value 
  - If the `break` is not present, execution flows on to the code in the next case. 
  ```java
  switch (variable) {
    case value1:
      statement(s);
      break;
    case value2:
      statement(s);
      break;
    default:
      statement(s);
  }
  ```

  - A `switch` statement may execute one or more of several alternatives. When executed:
    - The expression in the `switch` is evaluated and compared to the `case` constants.
    - If one of the `case` constants is equal to the value of the expression, execution continues at that statement.
    - If none of the `case` constants match, the statements after the `default` label, if present, are executed. 

### Scopes and Blocks 
  - **Blocks** organize declarations and statements 
    - Enclosed by `{   }`
  - Blocks define a new **scope**(distinct context within a program)

### Class and Method Scope 
  - Fields and methods are accessible to the entire class 
  - Local variables and method parameters are local to their method  

  - Local variables exist only while the method is active. 
    - When control leaves the method, the local variables are automatically destroyed. 
    - They must be initialized. 
  - Instance variables exist as long as the instance exists. 
    - They are created for each instance of the class.
    - They will assume default values if no values are assigned. 

### while vs. do-while Statement 
  - In `while` statement, the expression is evaluted **before** each execution of the statement. 
  - In `do-while` statement, the test is done **after** each execution of the loop, therefore the statement in a `do-while` statement is executed **at least once**, the statement in a `while` may never be executed (if the test is false when the loop is first entered). 
  ```java
  int index = 10;
  do {
    // do some work
    index = index - 1;
  }
  while (index > 0); // stop looping when index reaches 0

### for Statement 
  ```java
  // print values from 0 to 3 
  for (int i = 0; i <= 3; i++) {
    System.out.print(i + " ");
  }
  ```

### break Statement 
  - **break** transfers control to the end of the enclosing loop, or switch statement 

### continue Statement 
  - **continue** exists the _current iteration_ of the loop
    - It continues with the next iteration 
  - Unlike `break`, continue does NOT exit the loop entirely; it just exits the **current iteration** of the loop, and continues with the next iteration 
  
