# 5/30/20 Saturday 

The first two weeks of learning Java at TLG has been going well. Reading "Head First Java" beforehand has helped me a lot. I'm going to read more of it today :) 

## Chapter 5. Writing a Program: Extra-Strength Methods 

"Focus first on _things_ in the program rather than the _procedures_."

### Building a "Simple Dot Com Game" 
At least two classes are needed, a "Game" class and a "DotCom" class. 
1. **Game starts**
  - creates ONE DotCom and gives it a location on three cells in the single row of seven cells. 
2. **Game play begins**
  - prompt user for a guess, then check to see if it hit any of the DotCome's three cells. If a hit, increment the numOfHits variable.
3. **Game finishes**
  - when all three cells have been hit (the numOfHits variable value is 3), and tells the user how many guesses it took to sink the DotCom. 

### Three things we'll write for each class 
1. Prep code 
  - a form of pseudocode, to help focus on the logic without stressing about syntax 
2. Test code 
  - a class or methods that will test the real code and validate that it's doing the right thing 
3. Real code 
  - the actual implementation of the class. This is where we write real Java code

Snippet of `checkYourself()` method: 
  ```java
  public String checkYourself(String stringGuess) {

    int guess = Integer.parseInt(stringGuess); // convert the String to an int

    String result = "miss"; // make a variable to hold the result to return; set "miss" as default

    for (int cell : locationCells) { // repeat with each cell in the locationCells array
      if (guess == cell) {
        result = "hit";
        numOfHits++;
        break; // get out of the loop, no need to test other cells
      }
    }

    if (numOfHits == locationCells.length) {
      result = "kill";
    }
    
    System.out.println(result);

    return result;
  }




