# 5/5/20 Tuesday 

## Chapter 2 from "Head First Java": Classes and Objects 

- "Overriding" means that a subclass redefines one of its inherited methods when it needs to change or extend the behavior of that method. 

### When you design a class, think about the objects that will be created from that class type. Think about:

- things the object knows
- things the object does

**Things an object knows about itself are called:** _instance variables_; they represent an object's state (the data), and can have unique values for each object of that type. 

**Think of instance as another way of saying object.**

**Things an object can do are called:** _methods_

### What's the difference between a class and an object?
**A class is not an object. (but it's used to construct them)**

A class is a _blueprint_ for an object. It tells the virtual machine _how_ to make an object of that particular type. Each object made from that class can have its own values for the instance variables of that class. For example, you might use the Button class to make dozens of different buttons, and each button might have its own color, size, shape, label, and so on. 

### The dot operator (.) gives you access to an object's state and behavior (instance variables and methods)

```java
// make a new object
Dog d = new Dog();
// tell it to bark by using the 
// dot operator on the 
// variable d to call bark()
d.bark();
// set its size using the 
// dot operator
d.size = 40;
```
### What does it take to create and use an object?...

You need _two_ classes. One class for the type of object you want to use, and another class to _test_ your new class. 

The _tester_ class is where you put the main method, and in that main() method you create and access objects of your new class type. The tester class has only one job: to _try out_ the methods and variables of your new object class type. 

**As long as you're in main(), you're not really in "Objectville". It's fine for a test program to run within the main method, but in a true OO application, you need objects talking to other objects, as opposed to a static main() method creating and testing objects**.

### The two uses of main: 
- to test your real class
- to launch/start your Java application 

A real Java application is nothing but objects talking to other objects. In this case, _talking_ means objects calling methods on one another. 

Each time an object is created in Java, it goes into an area of memory known as **The Heap**. The Java heap is actually called the **Garbage-Collectibile Heap**. When you create an object, Java allocates memory space on the heap according to how mnuch that particular object needs. 

### Bullet Points
- Object-oriented programming lets you extend a program without having to touch previously-tested, working code.
- All Java code is defined in a **class**.
- A class describes how to make an object of that class type. **A class is like a blueprint**.
- An object can take care of itself; you don't have to know or care _how_ the object does it. 
- An object **knows** things and **does** things. 
- Things an object knows about itself are called **instance variables**. They represent the _state_ of an object. 
- Things an object does are called **methods**. They represent the _behavior_ of an object. 
- When you create a class, you may also want to create a separate test class which you'll use to create objects of your new class type. 
- A class can **inherit** instance variables and methods from a more abstract **superclass**.
- At runtime, a Java program is nothing more than objects "talking" to other objects. 
