# 6/1/20 Monday

## Review Session 7
1. Why are packages used?
  - used to group classes
  - 4 access levels
  - encapsulation, access control

2. What happens to any "." in a package name when Java creates folders in the Operating System?
  - it acts as a "slash" 

3. How do you get access to packages outside your class?
  - by using `import` keyword, importing specific classes is recommended practice 

4. What package does every Java class get without specifying it?
  - `java.lang`

5. What must you do if you use two packages that have a class with the same name?
  - Use FQN (fully qualified name)

6. How to get access only to the "static" members of a class?
  - by using `import static java.lang.Math.*;`  

7. How do you put your class(es) into their own package?
  - typing package statement at the very top 

8. How is "protected" access different from the default(package-level) access?
  - Protected are visible by subclassess, even if it is outside of the package. 

9. What is a "jar". Why is it used? 
  - deployment artifact

10. What are major limitations of packages that modules fix starting in Java 9?
  - modules provide dependency management, add another level of encapsulation

11. What often happens with modules names that can cause confusion for devs?
  - the names are the same 

12. What is typically the name of the module descriptor file? Where must it be found?
  - module-info.java file, must be found in the module's root directory

13. How do you expose your module's packages?
  - using `exports`

14. How do you identify other modules your module depends upon? 
  - using `requires`

## Review Session 8
1. What does composition mean?
  - assembling of objects, "has-a" relationship 

2. What are the benefits of using Composition?
  - break things to smaller problems, "divide and conquer" 

3. What is delegation?
  - pass through the responsiblity

4. How is Delegation related to Encapsulation and Abstraction?
  - fosters reusing code that already exists 

5. What is an "inverse" relationship between classes?
  - "Employee" and "Company" example, pg 224.
  - works for and employs are inverse relationships 

6. What do you get when your class inherits from a superclass?
  - all data members are inherited
  - all methods are inherited except
    - private methods
    - constructors, but can be "burrowed" via `super()`

7. What are the 3 allowable uses of the "super" keyword? Which one won't you typically see? 
  - invoke constructor of super class
  - invoke method of super class 
  - super.variable name (not commonly used)

8. Describe Constructor "chaining"? 
  - Pg 233

9. Why can't a constructor call both a superclass Constructor And another constructor within its own class?
  - either `super()` or `this()` has to be first, so there's a conflict

10. What does it mean when a Class is declared as "final"?
  - You may not create subclasses from that class 

11. What is the difference between overriding and overloading methods?
  - Overriding: methods in different classes with same signature (like `toString(0)`)
  - Overloading: methods with same name, using different parameters, in same class (like constructors)

12. What does Polymorphism allow you to invoke behaviors in subclasses while using a superclass reference variable?

13. Describe the OO principle of "open for extension, closed for modification."
  - create new subclasses, but can't change original behaviors 

14. When would you need to "downcast" a reference variable?
  - 

15. Why is downcasting an OO "red flag?"
  - 

16. What is the value return by hashCode() typically used for?
  - natural ordering 

17. What does `this.getClass()` return? Why could this be useful?
  - returns the current type, useful in debugging 

18. Explain why Garbage Collection is not instantaneous.
  - Runs in the lowest priority thread 

19. When MUST a class be declared as "abstract?"
  - If it has atleast one abstract method 

20. How do you instantiate an abstract class?
  - You can't 

21. What's the difference between an abstract method and a concrete method?
  - abstract method has no body; concrete has body 

## Class Notes (Session 9: Interfaces)

Interfaces are used to define, but not implement behaviors
  - methods are implicitly abstract

**Interface is not a super class, it's a contract.**

Most interface names are adjetives or adverbs. 





