# 6/11/20 Thursday

## Class Notes 

- Why do we separate source folders for test classes and target classes?
  - it's easier to ship the business code for the customer 

- The default JUnit test runner executes your tests alphabetically.
  - False 

- What are the API rules for test methods, e.g. signature, etc?
  - has to be public, void, method name can be anything, no arguments, and annotated w/ `@test`

- What is the naming convention often used for test class and target class?
  - student, StudentTest

- The default JUnit test runner executes your tests in the order in which they appear in the class.
  - False, there is no order 

- Why is the test class usually in the same package as the target class?
  - Student and StudentTest, what if Student is not a public class? Not all business classes are public classes; 2, what if a method is default or private?

- What do we mean by "positive" and "negative" testing?
  - Positive: within valid range, "happy-path"
  - Negative: Outside of valid range, "unhappy-path"

- List some characteristics of a "cohesive" test.
  - "about one thing"
  - each test should be verifying one piece of functionality 
  - a test should only be able to fail for ONE reason 

- What is a test fixture? What methods comprise one? Why use them? 
  - fixture = set of business objects under test (the private fields)
    - ex. `private Calculator calc;`
  - multiple test methods can use the same initialization 
  - `@BeforeClass`, `@Before`

```java
List<String> names = new ArrayList<>();
```
ArrayList above is a class, List is a interface: `class ArrayList implements List` 
