# 6/16/20 Tuesday 

Today we learned about inner classes, and static nested classes. We also got into annotations. Practing annotations gave me a chance to dive into the Java docs. 

## Class Notes
- List some reasons we would constrain a class to have only one instance.
  - When the process is expensive 
  - only a need for one (IRS)

- Describe the difference between HAS-A and USES.
  - Has-A has a more permanent relationship; uses only last in a method, temporary.

- I've got 2 methods in my class with some redundant code, should I factor out the redundant code into a private method or a delegate class?
  - It depends. 
  - If it's "one true implementation", make it a private method.
  - If it's often used, or by somebody else, make it a delegate class. 

- The Singleton Pattern can always be defeated by using new directly. (T/F)
  - False 

- Factories, in all their forms, help us achieve what main goal?
  - remove "new" from clients, promote loose coupling 

- List some of the benefits and costs of using composition.
  - Costs:  
    - More objects to deal with
  - Benefits:
    - Flexibility, delegate at run-time 

- List some things that are "wrong" with the new operator.
  - unlimited power to client to instantiate objects
  - too limiting 

- Composition allows you to change the behavior of a specific object instance at runtime. How?
  - Family of delegates

- Some singletons are "lazy", what does that mean?
  - when you need it, you create it
  - eager: pre-instantiate
    - downside: what if you don't need it? you just wasted all that space

- Does the strategy pattern leverage composition or inheritance?
  - composition of inheritance


Dependency Injection
```java
public class CarFactory {

  public static Car createCar() {
    Engine eng = EngineFactory.createEngine(...);
    Transmission trans = TransmissionFactory.createTransmission(...);
    return new Car(eng, trans);
  }
}

// client-side code:
Car c = CarFactory.createCar(...);
```


On the Fly... 
- Used to leverage *one-time* polymorphism 
```java
private Computer normComputer = new Computer();

private Computer fastComputer = new Computer() {
  // override any methods you want 
};

irs.register(new TaxPayer() {
  public void payTaxes() {

  }
});
```



