# 6/2/20 Tuesday  

Abstract method is a method that must be overwritten.
```java
abstract public class food {
  public abstract void eat();
}
```
** You CAN have an abstract class with non-abstract methods, but if you have abstract methods in a class, that class MUST be abstract. 

** The subclass must implement or override the abstract method in the superclass. 

## Session 9 Knowledge Check
1. What is the #1 limitation of the Java language? How do interfaces work around this?
  - You can only inherit from one superclass; you can implement multiple interfaces.

2. How are abstract classes and interfaces similar?
  - both support default and static methods
  - loosely couple functionality 
  - subclasses must implement/overwrite them

3. And how are they different?
  - abstract has to explicitly state method is abstract 
  - interface can only have CONSTANTS 
  - Main: abstract is one class, you can only inherit one class 

4. What restrictions are put onto a class which implements an interface? 
  - You have to implement all the methods that aren't default
  - Or, the class implementing the interface has to be abstract 

5. What benefits does a class receive when it implements an interface?
  - You pick up a new data type; a class can be of many different interface types

6. In Java 8++, what do we call an Interface method that has an implementation? Why use this?
  - "default" method; "backward compatibility"

7. How are static methods of an Interface different from static methods of a class? What does this mean to your coding? 
  - There are no differences :)

## Reading Session 11: Collections and Generics
- The Java Collections Framework is all about storing and manipulating groups of objects. 
- Any type of object can be stored as an **element** in a collection. 
- Generics capability: Java 5 added the type safety of arrays to the Collections Framework
- Autoboxing: Java 5 also added the ability to seemingly put primitives into a collection 

### Collection Interface 
  - Most general (root) type - a grouping of (typed) objects
    - List: index-based storage 
    - Set: no duplicates 
  
  ```java 
  // pronounced "collection-of-Employee"
  Collection Employee employees = new ArrayList Employee();
  ```
  - Without the type parameter, a collection holds any `Object`
    - called a "raw" type - their use is **strongly discouraged**
  
  **Good OO practice**: always reference your objects as high up on the hierarchy as you can, and whenever possible: code to the interface, not the implementation. 

### Interfaces and Contracts:
  - List
    - Ordered or sequenced, like an array
    - Allows duplicates 
  - Set 
    - Unordered, no concept of position, no index
    - No duplicates 
  - Map 
    - Table structure of key-value pairs 
    - No duplicate keys 