# 6/3/20 Wednesday

## Session 10 Review 

1. What are the differences between an Exception and an Error?
  - Exceptions are checked, Errors are unchecked

2. Why do Exception and Error classes have no "business" methods?


3. What is the difference between getMessage() and toString()?
  - toString() includes an Exception class 


4. What is the most commonly used constructor of Exception? 
  - add a string of message to it 

5. When might you throw an Exception? 
  - when there is a validation 


6. What happens to an Exception when it is not "handled"? Why might that be disastrous? 
  - It can stop the main()

7. What is the "Stack Trace"? What is also shown by printStackTrace()? Where does that go? 
  - What methods were called from which lines from the code, you get toString(), it goes System.error

8. How does a method tell its callers that it might send them an exception? 
  - When you add a `throws` clause in the method signature 

9. How does a calling method "handle" an exception from the called method? 
  - The try-catch block 

10. When "handling" multiple exceptions, what must a method be careful about? 
  - catch the lowest sequence first (lowest level of subclasses)

11. How do you add code that will execute whether an exception happens or not? 
  - use a `finally` block

12. Why would you use the "with resources" option? 
  - 

13. What are your options when overriding a method that causes an exception? 
  - 

14. In web/app server code, where should any exception output be sent? 
  - System.err